Proposal: Ziggurat Network Testing and Stability Framework (#894)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/ziggurat.md

- Perform initial repository setup and housekeeping

### 2. Develop Test Suite
Create a suite of black box tests for conformance to spec, performance bottlenecks, and resistance to malicious actors

- Start at the lowest level of network activity
- Move through the network protocol piece by piece to ensure conformance to spec
- Introduce a networking-only test node for "black box" coverage
- Introduce stress testing and enhanced fuzzing
- Introduce tests for malicious behavior, such as:
  - Sending messages with flipped bits or other corruption
  - Spawning a vast amount of connections or reconnecting many times
  - Spamming messages

## Budget and Schedule

### Milestone Deliverables

We will split the grant process into two milestones: one for requirement gathering and solidification, and another for the final test suite deliverables.

#### Milestone 1: Requirement Gathering

The Equilibrium team will liase with the Polkadot node developers to determine the best course of action, testing metholody, and testing targets for Ziggurat, culminating in a specification document to be followed in Milestone 2.

> - **Total Estimated Duration:** One months

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Total Estimated Duration:** One month
```

  - Spawning a vast amount of connections or reconnecting many times
  - Spamming messages

## Budget and Schedule

### Milestone Deliverables

We will split the grant process into two milestones: one for requirement gathering and solidification, and another for the final test suite deliverables.

#### Milestone 1: Requirement Gathering

The Equilibrium team will liase with the Polkadot node developers to determine the best course of action, testing metholody, and testing targets for Ziggurat, culminating in a specification document to be followed in Milestone 2.

- **Total Estimated Duration:** One month
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  4 FTE
- **Total Costs:** $62,000

The grant template deliverables 0a-0d are not required for this milestone as this is entirely communications and research-based. Indeed, you could consider the Zigguarat and license commensurate in this milestone for their corresponding deliverables whereas the Docker image and test suite itself are likewise commensurate in Milestone 2. More detail in the following milestone.

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |

> | 1a. | Ziggurat Spec for Polkadot | This will be in the form of the form of the [ZCash spec] |
> | 1b. | Open Source License | Ziggurat is currently dual-licensed under the exceedingly permissive Apache + MIT combination and will continue to be. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0a. | License | Ziggurat is currently dual-licensed under the exceedingly permissive Apache + MIT combination and will continue to be. |
| 1. | Ziggurat Spec for Polkadot | This will be in the form of the form of the [ZCash spec] |

```

[ZCash spec]: https://github.com/eqlabs/ziggurat/blob/main/SPEC.md

#### Milestone 2: Test Suite Delivery

The Equlibrium team will write and perform the testing designated by the specification delivered in Milestone 1, in addition to accoutrements such as documentation, blog posts, etc.

- **Total Estimated Duration:** Two months
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  4 FTE
- **Total Costs:** $124,000

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |

> | 2a. | Open Source License | Ziggurat is currently dual-licensed under the exceedingly permissive Apache + MIT combination and will continue to be. |
> | 2b. | Documentation | Documentation will be diligently updated and maintained as the codebase progresses and tests are written. Likely an extension or continuation of the existing [Ziggurat Manual]
> | 2c. | Testing Guide | We will provide developer-level guidelines for running the test suite locally. |
> | 2d. | Docker | As appropriate, we will provide Docker images of Ziggurat, particularly in the context of CI/CD integration. |
> | 2e. | The test suite | A respository of Rust code quite like the [existing ZCash test suite](https://github.com/eqlabs/ziggurat). |
> | 2f. | Final report | May be in the form of an email, markdown file, blog post, whichever is most approproate for the time and context. |
> (https://fluttering-gem-83c.notion.site/The-Ziggurat-Manual-88f6ab7d85774c5fb1bc12bcd64bf700) |
> | 2g. | Marketing / Public Relations (case by case) | When appropriate, we will work with the W3F to publish articles and/or social media posts regarding our findings |
> | 2h. | Security Disclosures | Though we will disclose these as soon as they are discovered, they are included here as a digest. **We will default to pricate disclosure of security vulnerabilities and otherwise follow W3F guidelines.**  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0a. | License | Ziggurat is currently dual-licensed under the exceedingly permissive Apache + MIT combination and will continue to be. |
| 0b. | Documentation | Documentation will be diligently updated and maintained as the codebase progresses and tests are written. Likely an extension or continuation of the existing [Ziggurat Manual]
| 0c. | Testing Guide | We will provide developer-level guidelines for running the test suite locally. |
| 0d. | Docker | As appropriate, we will provide Docker images of Ziggurat, particularly in the context of CI/CD integration. |
| 0e. | Marketing / Public Relations (case by case) | When appropriate, we will work with the W3F to publish articles and/or social media posts regarding our findings |
| 1. | The test suite | A respository of Rust code quite like the [existing ZCash test suite](https://github.com/eqlabs/ziggurat). |
| 2. | Final report | May be in the form of an email, markdown file, blog post, whichever is most approproate for the time and context. |
(https://fluttering-gem-83c.notion.site/The-Ziggurat-Manual-88f6ab7d85774c5fb1bc12bcd64bf700) |
| 3. | Security Disclosures | Though we will disclose these as soon as they are discovered, they are included here as a digest. **We will default to pricate disclosure of security vulnerabilities and otherwise follow W3F guidelines.**  |
```
